README.md, before:

# Paint-it (CVPR 2024)
### [Project Page](https://kim-youwang.github.io/paint-it) | [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11360)
This repository contains the official implementation of the CVPR 2024 paper, 
"🎨 Paint-it: Text-to-Texture Synthesis via Deep Convolutional Texture Map Optimization and Physically-Based Rendering".

<img width="960" alt="teaser_camready" src="https://github.com/postech-ami/paint-it/assets/55628873/e7069c3d-3fdf-4e01-b8dc-7e8a8f14d072">

## Highlights
**Paint-it is a text-driven high-quality PBR texture map synthesis method.** 

🌟 Our texture maps are ready for practical use in popular graphics engines like Blender and Unity, thanks to our Physics-based Rendering (PBR) parameterization, which includes diffuse, roughness, metalness, and normal information.

🎨 With our approach, the resulting texture maps are not only of superior quality but also offer the flexibility of relighting and material editing.

🔥 We've achieved impressive results without modifying the well-known Score-Distillation Sampling (SDS), instead focusing on optimizing variables through our texture map parameterization.

🔊 While many researchers are working on denoising the gradients from SDS, our work leverages the power of architectural bias, specifically Deep Image Prior, to robustly learn from noisy SDS gradients, even when dealing with PBR representations.


## Getting started
This code was developed on Ubuntu 18.04 with Python 3.8, CUDA 11.3 and PyTorch 1.12.0, using NVIDIA RTX A6000 (48GB) GPU. 
Later versions should work, but have not been tested.


### Environment setup

```
conda create -n paint_it python=3.8
conda activate paint_it

# set CUDA PATH
export CUDA_HOME=/usr/local/cuda-11.3
export PATH=$CUDA_HOME/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$CUDA_HOME/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

# install required packages
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install PyTorch3D: for python3.8, cuda 11.3, pytorch 1.12 (py38_cu113_pyt1120) -> need to install pytorch3d-0.7.2 
pip install --no-index --no-cache-dir pytorch3d -f https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/pytorch3d/packaging/wheels/py38_cu113_pyt1120/download.html
```

### Preparing 3D mesh data
Currently, this repository contains a sample mesh from [Objaverse](https://objaverse.allenai.org/) dataset.
To download a subset of Objaverse, you can refer to the scripts provided [here](https://github.com/daveredrum/Text2Tex?tab=readme-ov-file#benchmark-on-objaverse-subset).


### Generate PBR texture maps for 3D mesh
Given a 3D mesh in `.obj` format and the text prompt, you can run below command to generate PBR texture maps.
```
# Generate PBR textures for .obj meshes
python paint_it.py
```

When generating PBR texture maps for a subset of Objaverse meshes, 
you can modify below dictionary (paint_it.py, L294) to handle multiple mesh object IDs and corresponding text prompts.


```
mesh_dicts = {
    '9ce8ab24383c4c93b4c1c7c3848abc52': 'a pretzel',
}
```

### Generate PBR texture maps for 3D human mesh
Before you proceed, you need to download SMPL related materials. Get yourself registered and download the relevant files from [SMPL webpage](https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/index.html). 
1. **SMPL neutral model in `.pkl` format**  

   You can find `Download version 1.1.0 for Python 2.7 (female/male/neutral, 300 shape PCs)`. 
   Rename the downloaded `basicmodel_neutral_lbs_10_207_0_v1.1.0.pkl` into `SMPL_NEUTRAL.pkl` and place it under `./smpl` directory.

2. **SMPL UV map in `.obj` format**
   
   You can find `Download UV map in OBJ format`.
   Move the downloaded `smpl_uv.obj` into `./data` directory.


Given a 3D human mesh in SMPL parameter `.npz` format and text prompt, you can run below command to generate PBR texture maps.
The example `.npz` file is located under `./data/smpld_example`.
```
# Generate PBR textures for 3D human meshes
python paint_it_human.py
```

If you have 3D human scans (e.g., RenderPeople), but don't have smpl parameters for human meshes, try using [this mesh registration tool](https://github.com/bharat-b7/RVH_Mesh_Registration).


## Citation
If you find our code or paper helps, please consider citing:
````BibTeX
@inproceedings{youwang2024paintit,
    title = {Paint-it: Text-to-Texture Synthesis via Deep Convolutional Texture Map Optimization and Physically-Based Rendering},
    author = {Youwang, Kim and Oh, Tae-Hyun and Pons-Moll, Gerard},
    booktitle = {IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
    year = {2024}
}
````


## Contact
Kim Youwang (youwang.kim@postech.ac.kr)


## Acknowledgement
We thank the members of [AMILab](https://ami.postech.ac.kr/members) and [RVH group](https://virtualhumans.mpi-inf.mpg.de/people.html) for their helpful discussions and proofreading. 

The implementation of Paint-it is largely inspired and fine-tuned from the seminal projects.
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the authors for making their code public.
- Deep Image Prior (https://github.com/DmitryUlyanov/deep-image-prior)
- Stable-Dreamfusion (https://github.com/ashawkey/stable-dreamfusion)
- Fantasia3D (https://github.com/Gorilla-Lab-SCUT/Fantasia3D)

> The project was made possible by funding from the Carl Zeiss Foundation. This work is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) - 409792180 (Emmy Noether Programme, project: Real Virtual Humans), and the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF): Tübingen AI Center, FKZ: 01IS18039A. Gerard Pons-Moll is a Professor at the University of Tübingen endowed by the Carl Zeiss Foundation, at the Department of Computer Science and a member of the Machine Learning Cluster of Excellence, EXC number 2064/1 – Project number 390727645. Kim Youwang and Tae-Hyun Oh were supported by Institute of Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS-2023-00225630, Development of Artificial Intelligence for Text-based 3D Movie Generation; No.2022-0-00290, Visual Intelligence for SpaceTime Understanding and Generation based on Multi-layered Visual Common Sense; No.2021-0-02068, Artificial Intelligence Innovation Hub).

Commit message:

update README.md for custom mesh support

README.md, after:

# Paint-it (CVPR 2024)
### [Project Page](https://kim-youwang.github.io/paint-it) | [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11360)
This repository contains the official implementation of the CVPR 2024 paper, 
"🎨 Paint-it: Text-to-Texture Synthesis via Deep Convolutional Texture Map Optimization and Physically-Based Rendering".

<img width="960" alt="teaser_camready" src="https://github.com/postech-ami/paint-it/assets/55628873/e7069c3d-3fdf-4e01-b8dc-7e8a8f14d072">

## Highlights
**Paint-it is a text-driven high-quality PBR texture map synthesis method.** 

🌟 Our texture maps are ready for practical use in popular graphics engines like Blender and Unity, thanks to our Physics-based Rendering (PBR) parameterization, which includes diffuse, roughness, metalness, and normal information.

🎨 With our approach, the resulting texture maps are not only of superior quality but also offer the flexibility of relighting and material editing.

🔥 We've achieved impressive results without modifying the well-known Score-Distillation Sampling (SDS), instead focusing on optimizing variables through our texture map parameterization.

🔊 While many researchers are working on denoising the gradients from SDS, our work leverages the power of architectural bias, specifically Deep Image Prior, to robustly learn from noisy SDS gradients, even when dealing with PBR representations.


## Getting started
This code was developed on Ubuntu 18.04 with Python 3.8, CUDA 11.3 and PyTorch 1.12.0, using NVIDIA RTX A6000 (48GB) GPU. 
Later versions should work, but have not been tested.


### Environment setup

```bash
conda create -n paint_it python=3.8
conda activate paint_it

# set CUDA PATH
export CUDA_HOME=/usr/local/cuda-11.3
export PATH=$CUDA_HOME/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$CUDA_HOME/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

# install required packages
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install PyTorch3D: for python3.8, cuda 11.3, pytorch 1.12 (py38_cu113_pyt1120) -> need to install pytorch3d-0.7.2 
pip install --no-index --no-cache-dir pytorch3d -f https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/pytorch3d/packaging/wheels/py38_cu113_pyt1120/download.html
```

### Preparing 3D mesh data
Currently, this repository contains a sample mesh from [Objaverse](https://objaverse.allenai.org/) dataset.
To download a subset of Objaverse, you can refer to the scripts provided [here](https://github.com/daveredrum/Text2Tex?tab=readme-ov-file#benchmark-on-objaverse-subset).
Or, please prepare your own mesh `.obj` file, which already has texture coordinates defined (check if you have the lines `vt 0.xxx 0.xxx` defined inside your `.obj` contents). 


### Generate PBR texture maps for a custom 3D mesh
Given a 3D mesh in `.obj` format and the text prompt, you can run below command to generate PBR texture maps.
```bash
# Generate PBR textures for .obj meshes
python paint_it.py --mesh_path PATH_TO_YOUR_MESH.obj --prompt YOUR_TEXT_PROMPT
```

### Generate PBR texture maps for objaverse meshes
You can run Paint-it for the Objaverse meshes with below command.
```bash
# Generate PBR textures for .obj meshes
python paint_it_objaverse.py
```
When generating PBR texture maps for a subset of Objaverse meshes, 
you can modify below dictionary (paint_it_objaverse.py, L294) to handle multiple mesh object IDs and corresponding text prompts.

```bash
mesh_dicts = {
    '9ce8ab24383c4c93b4c1c7c3848abc52': 'a pretzel',
}
```

### Generate PBR texture maps for 3D human mesh
Before you proceed, you need to download SMPL related materials. Get yourself registered and download the relevant files from [SMPL webpage](https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/index.html). 
1. **SMPL neutral model in `.pkl` format**  

   You can find `Download version 1.1.0 for Python 2.7 (female/male/neutral, 300 shape PCs)`. 
   Rename the downloaded `basicmodel_neutral_lbs_10_207_0_v1.1.0.pkl` into `SMPL_NEUTRAL.pkl` and place it under `./smpl` directory.

2. **SMPL UV map in `.obj` format**
   
   You can find `Download UV map in OBJ format`.
   Move the downloaded `smpl_uv.obj` into `./data` directory.


Given a 3D human mesh in SMPL parameter `.npz` format and text prompt, you can run below command to generate PBR texture maps.
The example `.npz` file is located under `./data/smpld_example`.
```bash
# Generate PBR textures for 3D human meshes
python paint_it_human.py
```

If you have 3D human scans (e.g., RenderPeople), but don't have smpl parameters for human meshes, try using [this mesh registration tool](https://github.com/bharat-b7/RVH_Mesh_Registration).


## Citation
If you find our code or paper helps, please consider citing:
````BibTeX
@inproceedings{youwang2024paintit,
    title = {Paint-it: Text-to-Texture Synthesis via Deep Convolutional Texture Map Optimization and Physically-Based Rendering},
    author = {Youwang, Kim and Oh, Tae-Hyun and Pons-Moll, Gerard},
    booktitle = {IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
    year = {2024}
}
````


## Contact
Kim Youwang (youwang.kim@postech.ac.kr)


## Acknowledgement
We thank the members of [AMILab](https://ami.postech.ac.kr/members) and [RVH group](https://virtualhumans.mpi-inf.mpg.de/people.html) for their helpful discussions and proofreading. 

The implementation of Paint-it is largely inspired and fine-tuned from the seminal projects.
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the authors for making their code public.
- Deep Image Prior (https://github.com/DmitryUlyanov/deep-image-prior)
- Stable-Dreamfusion (https://github.com/ashawkey/stable-dreamfusion)
- Fantasia3D (https://github.com/Gorilla-Lab-SCUT/Fantasia3D)

> The project was made possible by funding from the Carl Zeiss Foundation. This work is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) - 409792180 (Emmy Noether Programme, project: Real Virtual Humans), and the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF): Tübingen AI Center, FKZ: 01IS18039A. Gerard Pons-Moll is a Professor at the University of Tübingen endowed by the Carl Zeiss Foundation, at the Department of Computer Science and a member of the Machine Learning Cluster of Excellence, EXC number 2064/1 – Project number 390727645. Kim Youwang and Tae-Hyun Oh were supported by Institute of Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS-2023-00225630, Development of Artificial Intelligence for Text-based 3D Movie Generation; No.2022-0-00290, Visual Intelligence for SpaceTime Understanding and Generation based on Multi-layered Visual Common Sense; No.2021-0-02068, Artificial Intelligence Innovation Hub).
